Indirect impact of influenza vaccination on the circulation of respiratory viruses from 2016 to 2024: a statistical modelling studySummaryBackgroundInfluenza vaccines are effective tools for controlling influenza, but their potential unintended consequences on other respiratory pathogens at the population level remain largely unknown. We aimed to investigate such indirect effects of influenza vaccination within multiple respiratory viruses.MethodsHere, we integrated influenza vaccine coverage, respiratory surveillance, environmental, and socioeconomic data from 35 countries between 2016 and 2024. We applied the empirical dynamic modelling framework to identify links between influenza vaccination coverage and the activity of common respiratory viruses globally, including respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenza virus, rhinovirus, adenovirus, and human metapneumovirus, in both pre- and post-COVID-19 pandemic periods.FindingsEpidemic intensities of respiratory viruses were lower in countries with high influenza vaccination coverage (>30%) than in those with low coverage (<10%). The off-target effects of influenza vaccination on other respiratory virus activity were detected when vaccination coverage was below 30%. At low vaccination coverage level, respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenza virus, human metapneumovirus, and adenovirus showed positive, nonlinear associations with influenza A virus (IAV), peaking at approximately 30% IAV activity and becoming non-significant above 50%, whereas rhinovirus was negatively associated with IAV. At high coverage, these associations were negligible. The contrasting patterns by vaccination level remained consistent across influenza types, and age groups, before and after COVID-19.InterpretationOur findings highlight that influenza vaccination programs may have population-level impacts on other respiratory viruses by altering influenza transmission.FundingNational Key Research and Development Program of China Keywords Influenza vaccine, vaccination coverage, indirect effect, influenza, other respiratory viruses
Research in contextEvidence before this studyThe substantial direct benefits of influenza vaccination programs in controlling influenza epidemics are well known, whereas their role in indirectly affecting other cocirculating viruses is not well understood. We searched PubMed for articles published between March 15, 2012, and September 1, 2025, using the following search terms: (“influenza vaccin*”) AND (“respiratory virus” OR “respiratory syncytial virus”) AND (“non-specific” OR “interaction” OR “viral interference”). We did not include additional terms such as “RSV,” “rhinovirus,” “RV,” “parainfluenza,” “PIV,” “human metapneumoviruses,” “HMPV,” “adenoviruses,” or “ADV,” as they did not yield relevant studies. Our search yielded 19 publications, 10 of which were related to the effects of influenza vaccination on other respiratory viruses. Seven studies showed individual-level evidence of associations between influenza vaccination and non-influenza respiratory viruses, with mixed results. One animal experiment suggested that the influenza vaccine could provide non-specific protection against respiratory syncytial virus by inducing innate immune responses. In addition, two studies evaluated the population-level impact of influenza vaccination on respiratory syncytial virus: one through mathematical modeling assuming reduced RSV susceptibility similar to that in viral interactions, and the other through causal inference using population-based data. Nevertheless, assessing the connection between influenza vaccination and a broad range of other respiratory viruses on a global scale remains challenging, and no study has investigated it.Added value of this studyOur findings provide evidence for potential global causal links between influenza vaccination and the activity of other respiratory viruses. Influenza vaccination and influenza activity appear to jointly influence community respiratory virus activity, both before the COVID-19 pandemic and during the resurgence of respiratory viruses in the post-COVID-19 era. Furthermore, nonlinear associations between influenza activity and the risk of other respiratory viruses were evident only at low vaccination coverage levels, suggesting more complex viral ecology when vaccination coverage was low.Implications of all the available evidenceInfluenza vaccination strategies should account for their wider effects on respiratory virus co-circulation.
IntroductionAcute respiratory infections caused by common viral pathogens such as influenza virus (IV), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), parainfluenza virus (PIV), rhinovirus (RV), adenovirus (ADV), and human metapneumovirus (HMPV) are substantial contributors to global morbidity and mortality1. Vaccination can provide protection against target pathogens, and expanding vaccination coverage is crucial for reducing their associated health burden. Influenza vaccines have been available for many decades2-4, while vaccine development for other respiratory viruses is less advanced than that of influenza5,6, with only RSV vaccines currently available, approved in 20237,8. Nevertheless, the potential off-target effects of the vaccines on other co-circulating pathogens are not yet well characterized. [YL1]A better understanding of these effects, exemplified by influenza vaccination, may inform vaccination strategies with far-reaching public health implications.[YL2]Influenza vaccination may be associated with changes in other respiratory viruses [YL3]through trained immunity, which involves epigenetic reprogramming[YL4]9. Such non-specific protective effects against unrelated pathogens are observed in certain vaccines, especially live-attenuated vaccines10,11. Experimental evidence has shown that the inactivated influenza vaccine may also induce transcriptional reprogramming and enhance non-specific antiviral responses12.[YL5] Moreover, co-circulation of influenza with other respiratory viruses in the human respiratory tract occupies a shared ecological niche that provides opportunities for viral interactions13. These interactions may manifest as either positive or negative effects by enhancing or inhibiting infection with another virus, and in turn influencing the population dynamics of viral respiratory infections14. Growing evidence suggests that influenza interacts with other respiratory viruses at both the host and population levels15-18. [YL6]Given complex ecological interactions in multi-pathogen systems, influenza vaccination may affect the transmission of other viruses19-21.Several epidemiological studies have examined associations between influenza vaccination and the risk of other respiratory virus infections at the individual level22-27. These findings were mixed; some found no association23,24, whereas others reported an increased risk of noninfluenza respiratory virus infections [YL7]associated with vaccination25,26. Notably, the effects of influenza vaccination may vary depending on the specific respiratory virus. For example, a test-negative design study found an increased risk of HMPV infection, but decreased risks of PIV and RSV infections among vaccinated individuals compared with unvaccinated individuals27.[YL8][YL9] Individual-level evidence indicates that influenza vaccination appears to affect co-circulating pathogens, including emerging infectious diseases, as suggested by its associations with a reduced risk of SARS-CoV-2 infections12,22.[YL10]Population?level evaluations of the indirect impacts of influenza vaccination on other respiratory viruses have largely focused on RSV15,16,28. A cohort study found that influenza vaccination may reduce RSV-related hospitalizations in children, possibly due to the non-specific effects of the vaccine28. Several mathematical modeling studies have explored potential mechanisms linking influenza vaccination to RSV dynamics. One modeling study indicated that the absence of influenza through widespread vaccination could reduce RSV hospitalizations15. In contrast, another model suggested that the live attenuated influenza vaccine may increase RSV burden by altering RSV susceptibility through mechanisms resembling the interactions between influenza and RSV16. While informative, these findings are sensitive to model structure and assumptions, thereby limiting their generalizability.  [YL11]Consequently, population-level impact of influenza vaccine campaigns [YL12]on the dynamics of co-circulating respiratory viruses remains unclear, particularly in the context of viral resurgence following the COVID-19 pandemic29,30.[YL13]In this study, we compile a large multi-source dataset on respiratory virus activity, covering influenza (IAV, IBV, [YL14]and IV) and other respiratory viruses (RSV, PIV, RV, ADV, and HMPV), along with influenza vaccine coverage, environmental, immunological, and socio-economic indicators, across 35 countries worldwide between 2016 and 2024. Using a data-driven, empirical approach, we aim to provide a global assessment of population-level impacts of influenza vaccination on a wide range of co-circulating respiratory viruses, before and after the COVID-19 pandemic.ResultsGlobal disparities in influenza vaccine coverage and epidemic dynamics of common respiratory virusesPrior to the COVID-19 pandemic, common respiratory viruses in both hemispheres displayed relatively stable seasonal patterns (Fig. 1A, Fig. S1, and Tables S1-S2). This pattern was largely disrupted during the COVID-19 pandemic29, and resurged in early 202230 (Fig. 1A). To quantify viral activity, we calculated monthly annual average percentage (AAP)31, and defined peak intensity (the maximum value) and epidemic intensity (the inverse Shannon index) per season for each country32 to ensure comparability across countries and years (Fig. S2). In most temperate countries, significant positive correlations [YL15]between the AAP time series of IAV and other respiratory viruses were observed, indicating a co-circulating pattern at the population level, but these associations were less evident in [YL16]tropical countries (Figs. S3 and S4).Influenza vaccination is primarily used to prevent influenza infections. To investigate a potential association between influenza vaccination and co-circulating respiratory viruses, we compiled data on influenza vaccine coverage in the general population (Table S3 and S4). Considerable vaccine coverage disparities across countries and time periods were observed (Fig. 1B and Fig. S5). Despite a slight increase in vaccine coverage following the onset of the pandemic, the gap between low and high coverage [YL17]remained significant [YL18][YL19]throughout (Fig. 1C and Fig. S5[YL20], Student’s t-test, p < 0.05). Before the COVID-19 pandemic, temperate countries with high coverage exhibited significantly lower peak and epidemic intensities for IV, IAV, RSV, PIV, RV, ADV, and HMPV than those with low coverage (Wilcoxon rank-sum tests, p < 0.05, Fig. 1D and Fig. S6). A similar pattern persisted post-COVID-19 pandemic, although significant differences were observed for fewer viruses (Fig. 1E). [YL21]Such patterns were absent in tropical countries (Fig. S7). [YL22]These findings suggest an association between large-scale influenza vaccination campaigns and changes in the dynamics of co-circulating respiratory viruses.[YL23]  [YL24][YL25]Figure 1. Global disparities in seasonal influenza vaccine coverage and the epidemic dynamics of common respiratory viruses at the population level. (A) Virological surveillance of common respiratory viruses in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres from January 2016 to December 2024. Stacked bar charts (left-hand y-axis) represent temporal patterns of the median number of positive cases for common respiratory viruses in their respective study countries. Green trend points (right-hand y-axis) indicate the median monthly annual average percentage (AAP) time series for IAV across all countries. The study period was divided into the pre-COVID-19 pandemic (2016–2019) and since-COVID-19 pandemic (2020–2024) periods, with the latter further subdivided into the pandemic (2020–2021) and post-COVID-19 pandemic (2022–2024) periods. (B) Annual influenza vaccine coverage among the general population for each country. Countries were classified into low (<10%, n = 8), medium (10%-30%, n = 22), and high (>30%, n = 5) coverage based on mean annual vaccine coverage in the general population during the pre-COVID-19 pandemic period33, and ordered from lowest to highest coverage. (C) Spatial distribution of regions with low, medium, and high coverage. A Student’s t-test was used to assess differences in vaccine coverage between low and high coverage regions across the two periods. (D to E) Comparison of epidemic dynamics for common respiratory viruses between temperate countries with low and high coverage, during both the pre-COVID-19 pandemic and post-COVID-19 pandemic periods. For each virus in each country, epidemic dynamics were quantified using two metrics based on monthly AAP time series per season: peak intensity (the maximum AAP value) and epidemic intensity (the inverse of the Shannon index, normalized between 0 and 1). Blue (red) points and vertical lines indicate means and interquartile ranges of peak intensity and epidemic intensity in temperate countries within low (high) coverage regions. Wilcoxon rank-sum tests were used to assess differences in peak intensity and epidemic intensity between temperate countries in the low and high coverage regions during both the pre-COVID-19 pandemic and post-COVID-19 pandemic periods. Influenza vaccination exhibits off-target effects on other respiratory viruses at the population levelTo evaluate the off-target effects of influenza vaccination, we employed convergent cross-mapping (CCM)34 within the empirical dynamic modeling (EDM) framework to detect potential causal interactions between influenza vaccine coverage and common respiratory virus activity (see Methods). Adjusted influenza vaccine coverage (AIVC) was estimated for each country and season based on annual vaccine coverage and country-specific vaccination schedules (Table S5), with consideration of vaccine effectiveness waning35,36 (see Methods, Fig. S8). The causal effects [YL26]of influenza vaccination coverage on influenza (IAV, IBV, and IV) and other respiratory viruses (RSV, PIV, RV, ADV, and HMPV) varied across countries, but they were statistically significant globally (Fisher’s combined p < 0.001, Figs. 2A, S9, and S10). This global meta-significance indicates that the cross-map prediction of influenza vaccination for common respiratory viruses is significantly better than that of seasonal surrogate time series[YL27], suggesting that the observed links are not obscured by shared seasonality. Since the observed effects of influenza vaccination on nontarget [YL28]respiratory viruses may be partly mediated by influenza’s effect on these pathogens, we conducted comparable CCM analyses to examine these causal relationships. We found that IAV causally drives [YL29]these viruses with consistent global meta-significance throughout the study period (Fisher’s combined p < 0.001, Figs. 2B and S9), with similar effects observed for IV and IBV (Fig. S10). Collectively, our findings indicate that seasonal influenza vaccination plays a role in the activity of other respiratory viruses, herein referred to as off-target effects, although it remains challenging to distinguish whether these arise from either the vaccine’s non-specific effects10,12 or unintended knock-on effects due to viral interactions20,21 (Fig. 2C).[YL30]Figure 2. Detection of causal effects of influenza vaccination and influenza activity on other respiratory viruses beyond shared seasonality. (A) Summary of country-level cross-map causality of adjusted influenza vaccine coverage (AIVC) on the activity of common respiratory viruses during both the pre- and post-COVID-19 pandemic periods. [YL31](B) Summary of country-level cross-map causality of influenza A virus (IAV) activity on other respiratory viruses during both the pre- and post-COVID-19 pandemic periods. In panels A to C, each circle represents the cross-mapping skill (?) from convergent cross-mapping (CCM), assessing the causality based on observed time series. Filled circles indicate that the observed ? significantly exceeds the null expectation (Bonferroni-adjusted p ≤ 0.05, one-sided t test), whereas open circles indicate non-significance (p > 0.05). Null expectations were derived from surrogate time series generated using the Ebisuzaki null model, which preserves all periodicities and seasonal cycles of the observed driver time series (AIVC or IAV activity) while randomizing the phases in the Fourier transform. Boxplots summarize the country-level ? values, and global meta-significance (pmeta) was calculated by combining the corresponding p values using Fisher’s method. (C) Schematic of the off-target effects of influenza vaccination on other respiratory viruses. The colors of the arrows correspond to the causal links identified in panels A and B. The off-target effect of influenza vaccination is defined as the overall unintended influence on non-influenza respiratory viruses, whether caused directly by the vaccine or indirectly through its effects on influenza.[YL32][YL33]To evaluate the importance of influenza vaccination in predicting other respiratory viruses, we compared its distinguishable predictive skill with that of environmental factors that may underlie the observed seasonality. We applied multivariate EDM to predict virus activity based on potential drivers, including temperature, absolute humidity, AIVC, and IAV activity, which were assessed both individually and in combination[YL34]37,38 (see Methods). The inclusion of any single variable improved forecast performance[YL35], suggesting that each may serve as a potential driver of non-influenza respiratory virus activity (Fig. 3). Forecast improvement was greatest when all four variables were included together, with multivariate EDM combining AIVC, IAV activity, and environmental factors outperforming models based solely on environmental drivers (Fig. 3). [YL36][YL37]Replacing IAV with either IBV or IV yielded similar results (Fig. S11), indicating that influenza vaccination and influenza activity exert joint causal effects [YL38]on other respiratory viruses, alongside environmental drivers.Figure 3. Forecast improvement using multivariate EDM for other respiratory virus activity with various suspected driver combinations. Country-level summaries of forecast improvement using multivariate EDM during the pre-COVID-19 pandemic period (A) and post-COVID-19 pandemic era (B). In (A) and (B), for each non-influenza virus, the improved cross mapping skill (∆?) is defined as ? (with that virus’s activity in the last month and suspected drivers) minus ? (with that virus’s activity in the last month only). In the multivariate EDM, we tested four suspected drivers and their combinations: influenza vaccination (V, represented by adjusted influenza vaccine coverage), influenza A virus (IAV, represented by IAV activity), absolute humidity (AH), and temperature (T). Causal effects are identified when the inclusion of suspected driver variables in the Multivariate EDM leads to forecast improvement (∆? > 0). Model results are ordered from smallest to largest based on the mean ∆?. Each point and error bar represent the mean and 95% confidence interval of country-level ∆? for each multivariate EDM across the study countries worldwide. Colors indicate model types: (i) pink for the best-performing multivariate EDM including IAV, V, T, and AH; (ii) blue for models considering environmental drivers T and AH only; (iii) yellow for V only; and (iv) gray for other model combinations.	Based on the best-performing multivariate EDM, we assessed how changes in influenza vaccination coverage are predicted to influence other respiratory virus activity (EDM scenario exploration37,39). We found that the effects of AIVC on RSV, PIV, RV, ADV, and HMPV declined with increasing vaccine coverage[YL39], and tended to plateau once coverage exceeded approximately 30%, as supported by 0.05 and 0.95 quantile regression analyses. Notably, in countries with high vaccine coverage, the impacts of AIVC on non-influenza respiratory viruses were negligible (Fig. 4 and Fig. S12). [YL40]We further examined differences in effects between coverage below and above 30%, finding that variability [YL41]differed significantly for all viruses (Levene test, p < 0.05), and mean effects for RSV and RV also differed significantly (Table S6, Welch’s t-test, p < 0.05). We additionally examined how small variations in influenza activity influenced other respiratory viruses, and observed that the effects varied with influenza activity. [YL42]However, when these effects were further analyzed as a function of AIVC, they remained nearly constant beyond roughly 30%[YL43], a pattern particularly evident before the pandemic (Figs. S13–S15). Overall, these findings suggest that influenza vaccination coverage may influence the dynamics of other respiratory viruses[YL44], potentially through altering the impact of influenza activity on their transmission[YL45]. [YL46]Figure 4. Influenza vaccination shows effects on other respiratory viruses varies with coverage level. Effects of adjusted influenza vaccine coverage (AIVC) on other respiratory viruses across all countries before the COVID-19 pandemic (A) and in the post-COVID-19 pandemic era (B). In panels A and B, effects are estimated through scenario exploration based on the best-performing multivariate EDM, which incorporates AIVC, IAV activity, temperature, and absolute humidity as drivers. This analysis quantifies the effect of AIVC on the activity of other respiratory viruses by predicting changes in their activity in response to small variations in vaccine coverage. For each non-influenza respiratory virus, each circle represents the estimated effect from scenario exploration at a historical time point in a study country. Colors of the circles (blue, purple, or red) denote countries with low, medium, or high coverage, respectively (Fig 1C). Black dashed lines represent the 0.05 and 0.95 quantile regressions of the estimated effect. The vertical grey dashed line indicates 30% of vaccine coverage.Influenza vaccine coverage modulates the relationship between influenza and other respiratory virusesTo examine the associations between IAV and other respiratory viruses under different influenza vaccination levels, we applied a spatiotemporal Bayesian hierarchical model, adjusting for climate, immunity[YL47], prevalence [YL48]proportions, socioeconomic factors, and spatiotemporal random effects. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, the relative risk (RR) of other respiratory viruses showed significant associations with IAV in models without the vaccination term and its interaction[YL49], reflecting a global average effect, with similar associations found under low vaccination levels (Figs. 5A, S16, and S17, see Methods). Specifically, at low coverage levels, RSV, PIV, HMPV, and ADV were positively and nonlinearly associated with IAV, peaking at approximately 30% IAV activity [YL50][YL51]and becoming non-significant above 50%, while RV was negatively associated with IAV. For instance, the maximum RR for RSV (1.47, 95% CI: 1.27–1.70) occurred at 35.5% IAV activity, with no significant association beyond 54%. The minimum RR for RV (0.74, 95% CI: 0.55–1.00) was observed at 58.9% IAV activity, above which the association was non-significant. These findings indicate that interactions between influenza and other respiratory viruses may be context-dependent [YL52]and vary with the circulation patterns of influenza16. In contrast, these associations were generally insignificant at high coverage levels (Fig. 5A). [YL53]Similar patterns of association under low and high coverage levels [YL54]were also observed for IV and IBV, suggesting that the relationships between influenza and other respiratory viruses may vary at different immunization levels (Fig. S18). In the post-COVID-19 pandemic period, significant associations between IAV and RV, ADV, and HMPV were observed at low but not at high coverage levels (Fig. 5B).Given the distinct epidemic patterns observed in tropical and temperate regions, we conducted sensitivity analyses separately. In temperate regions, results aligned with the global analysis, showing no significant associations between IAV and other respiratory viruses at high vaccination levels, while in tropical regions, associations were insignificant regardless of vaccination interaction (Fig. S19). To evaluate the potential impact of estimating monthly AIVC from annual data, we conducted sensitivity analyses using annual vaccine coverage[YL55]. These results similarly showed that associations between IAV and other respiratory viruses were no longer significant at high coverage levels (Fig. S20). Additional analyses using AIVC in specific groups (e.g., the elderly), rather than the general population used in the main analysis, further supported the lack of significant associations at high coverage levels (Fig. S21). Our result highlights that high influenza vaccination levels [YL56]may affect the relationship between influenza and other respiratory viruses through modulation of influenza dynamics.[YL57][YL58][YL59][YL60]Figure 5. Association between the risk of other respiratory viruses and influenza A virus (IAV) activity under different influenza vaccination coverage levels. Exposure–response associations between IAV and other respiratory viruses, relative to the absence of IAV activity (i.e., the annual average percentage [AAP] of IAV = 0), for low and high levels of vaccine coverage, in the pre-COVID-19 pandemic (A) and post-COVID-19 pandemic (B) periods. In panels A and B, analyses were conducted at the global scale using country-specific data for other respiratory viruses in both pre- and post-COVID-19 pandemic periods. We estimated associations between IAV activity and other respiratory virus activity at low and high influenza vaccination levels by incorporating a linear interaction between IAV activity and adjusted influenza vaccine coverage (AIVC), with AIVC centered at the 90th and 10th percentiles of the respective datasets for each period. Purple (yellow) solid lines and shaded regions represent the relative risk (RR) and 95% confidence intervals from the interaction model at low (high) levels of vaccine coverage, while the dashed line indicates the baseline with RR=1.DiscussionWe conducted a comprehensive global analysis to investigate the population-level effects of influenza vaccination on non-influenza respiratory viruses. Our study suggests that influenza vaccine coverage affect non-influenza respiratory viruses, with variation in the effects under different vaccine coverage levels. This pattern in turn helps deepen understanding of the broader implications of vaccination for public health practice.[YL61]Effective vaccines and immunization strategies for[YL62] respiratory viruses can prevent thousands of infections, hospitalizations, and deaths associated with target pathogens3,4,8, while their off-target effects have garnered increasing attention in recent years. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, vaccines such as influenza vaccines12,22 and Bacillus Calmette–Guérin vaccines11,40 have been found to be associated with potential [YL63][YL64]protection against SARS-CoV-2-related outcomes. Our study provides empirical information on the potential link between influenza vaccine coverage and the activity of other respiratory viruses globally, although distinguishing the specific biological mechanisms remains challenging. Moreover, our findings suggest that, influenza vaccination and influenza activity may jointly influence the circulation of non-influenza viruses, even after accounting for environmental factors. This pattern persisted during the post-COVID-19 resurgence of common respiratory viruses. Our results provide new evidence on the broader, population-level implications of vaccination for non-target pathogens, which warrants further investigation through experimental studies and mathematical modeling. Epidemic peaks and intensities of respiratory viruses were lower in temperate countries with high influenza vaccine coverage than those with low coverage. These patterns were not observed in tropical regions31. [YL65]Previous studies have shown that increasing vaccine coverage is highly impactful in reducing influenza burden or transmission3, even for low-efficacy influenza vaccines (10%–45%)4. [YL66]Besides, we revealed that the effect of influenza vaccination on other respiratory viruses diminished as coverage increased, approaching zero once coverage exceeded roughly 30%. This pattern may be explained by the indirect influence of influenza vaccination on other viruses through its impact on influenza activity. When influenza is greatly suppressed at relatively high coverage levels[YL67][YL68], such off-target effects are likely minimal at the population level. Previous studies on the population-level impact of influenza vaccination on other viruses have been limited, with a primary focus on RSV15,16. A mathematical modeling study found that vaccination with live attenuated influenza vaccines may increase the RSV burden, although estimates of vaccination impact vary considerably depending on the circulation patterns of influenza and RSV16. Our study underscores the importance of improving vaccine coverage and narrowing immunization gaps, with potential far-reaching implications beyond influenza.Potential links were also identified between influenza activity and other respiratory viruses, with the directions of associations depending on virus combinations. Specifically, a negative association between IAV and RV was observed[YL69], consistent with previous findings14. For RSV, we detected a positive association with IAV, although previous research has found either potential negative16 or positive interactions18. Overall, the direction and underlying interactions between influenza and other respiratory viruses remain inconclusive14-18, thereby warranting further investigation. Furthermore, our analysis found that the associations between IAV and other respiratory viruses were different at low and high coverage levels, possibly reflecting changes in influenza activity under different vaccination scenarios. [YL70]In polymicrobial systems, interactions among pathogens mean that interventions targeting one pathogen may, in theory, affect others in the system21. For example, a mathematical modeling study suggested that, due to interactions between RSV and HMPV, RSV interventions may affect the timing and magnitude of HMPV epidemics41.The present study lays the groundwork for further research on the indirect effects of a range of vaccines, ultimately informing public health strategies and enhancing preparedness for future pandemics.[YL71]Several limitations should be considered in this study. First, our data were primarily obtained from official sources, such as the WHO, which largely rely on case definitions. Consequently, our analysis does not account for age structure or disease severity, despite the considerable burden of respiratory infections in children and older adults1, and the heterogeneous clinical severity of respiratory viral coinfection20. The lack of such data may limit more granular estimates of the indirect effects of influenza vaccination and warrants future investigation. Second, despite efforts to include diverse countries and pathogens, the number of countries with available data varied considerably by virus after strict quality control. Additionally, subtype data for other respiratory viruses were unavailable, which may obscure estimates of off-target effects of influenza vaccines, as seasonal patterns differ by type, such as PIV42. Third, we measured viral activity using monthly AAP for each epidemic season, which allowed comparisons between countries31. This approach reduced variations in population size and reporting rates over time, though it may mask differences across multiple years. To alleviate bias introduced by COVID-19-related disruptions to respiratory virus transmission, we focused on the pre- and post-COVID-19 pandemic periods. [YL72]Fourth, we estimated country- and season-specific monthly AIVC for the general and elderly populations based on annual coverage and vaccine campaign timing, accounting for waning immunity; however, we did not consider strain mismatch or annual variability in vaccine effectiveness[YL73]. Our study focused on disparities in influenza vaccination coverage across countries and their associations with distinct epidemic patterns of influenza and other respiratory viruses, and more detailed and age-specific immunization data are required for further investigation.[YL74]Our study highlights the off-target effects of influenza vaccination on other respiratory viruses, and also underscores the potential benefits of improved vaccine coverage at the population level. These findings offer critical insights into broad immunization strategies and represent an important step towards understanding the indirect effects of vaccines.[YL75]Methods Study area and respiratory infection dataWe collected weekly virological surveillance data on influenza [YL76](IAV, IBV, and IV) from the WHO FluNet database, limited to the period from 2016 to 2024. Additional data [YL77]on other respiratory viruses (RSV, PIV, RV, ADV, and HMPV) were obtained for the same period from WHO FluNet, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, the Israel Center for Disease Control, the New Zealand Ministry of Health, and the Korea Institute of Science and Technology Information (Table S1[YL78]). We classified countries as temperate (latitude outside the range of –23·5° to 23·5°) or tropical (latitude between –23·5° and 23·5°) regions based on their centroid latitude. We defined the epidemic season for respiratory infections as spanning from July (week 27) to June (week 26) of the following year in temperate countries of the Northern Hemisphere, and as the full calendar year in temperate countries of the Southern Hemisphere and in tropical countries32. [YL79]The study period was divided into the pre-COVID-19 pandemic (2016-2019), COVID-19 pandemic (2020-2021), and post-COVID-19 pandemic (2022-2024) periods[YL80][YL81], with the latter two collectively defined as the since-COVID-19 pandemic period. Countries were included in the study if, for at least four consecutive seasons during the pre-COVID-19 pandemic period, they reported at least 100 influenza-positive samples and at least 20 positive samples for any one of the other respiratory viruses per season. Additionally, both influenza and the other respiratory virus were required to have records for more than 20 weeks in those seasons. Based on these criteria, data from 35, 21, 12, 17, 14 countries were included for RSV, PIV, RV, ADV, and HMPV for the entire study period (Table S2). The same inclusion criteria were applied to the post-COVID-19 pandemic dataset, except that at least two consecutive eligible seasons were required. To ensure comparability of seasonality results across countries, weekly respiratory infection data were aggregated monthly, with cases from overlapping weeks distributed by the number of days in each month (see Supplementary Information for details). Relative strength of viral activityWe calculated the annual average percentage (AAP) for each month to measure the relative strength of virus activity for each respiratory virus31, using the following formula:?AAP?_i=n_i/(∑_1^12?n_i )?100%where ni represents the number of cases in month i. The metric was calculated based on the epidemic season defined for each country. To reduce bias from sporadic detections of respiratory viruses caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, potentially leading to an overestimation of epidemic patterns[YL82], we treated AAP values as missing for the affected season in each country. We further characterized epidemic dynamics using two metrics derived from the monthly AAP time series for each season: peak intensity, defined as the maximum value, and epidemic intensity, defined as the inverse Shannon index normalized to a scale from 0 to 132 (see Supplementary Information for model details).[YL83]Adjusted influenza vaccine coverageTo estimate annual influenza vaccine coverage in the general population, [YL84]we collected data on the total number of influenza vaccine doses distributed per year from the WHO and in-country sources, such as Ministry of Health websites [YL85](Table S3). These data provide a reasonable proxy for vaccine coverage43. Coverage was calculated as the number of doses distributed per 100 population. Additionally, national influenza vaccine coverage data among the elderly were obtained from the WHO, PAHO, and OECD databases [YL86](Table S4). We additionally collected national-level data on the timing of vaccination campaigns from the WHO and other official sources (Table S5). To estimate monthly adjusted influenza vaccine coverage (AIVC), we combined annual coverage data with country- and season-specific information on the timing of vaccination campaigns[YL87], while accounting for waning immunity[YL88]. Specifically, assuming a normal distribution of vaccinations starting from the campaign start month[YL89], we derived monthly coverage values and aggregated them to obtain cumulative monthly vaccine coverage. These values were further adjusted by assuming that vaccine effectiveness [YL90]declined to zero at six months after vaccination35,36[YL91] (Fig. S8). For the main analysis, AIVC estimates were based on vaccine coverage in the general population.Environmental and socioeconomic data Hourly 2 m temperature and 2 m dew point temperature data (0.25° ? 0.25° resolution) were obtained from the ERA5 reanalysis dataset44. Relative humidity was calculated from these variables using the MetPy package45, and absolute humidity was subsequently derived from temperature and relative humidity. Population data at a 1 km resolution were obtained from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)46 and used to compute population-weighted averages of the environmental variables (see Supplementary Information for details). All variables were then aggregated to monthly national values. Temperature (?) and absolute humidity (g/m3) were included as covariates in this study, as both have been identified as important environmental drivers of influenza transmission37. Additionally, socioeconomic and demographic data, including total population and gross domestic product (GDP) per capita[YL92], were obtained from the World Bank47. Empirical dynamic modelingEDM is a data-driven framework that reconstructs the nonlinear dynamics of complex systems directly from time series data, without assuming any specific set of equations governing the system. Within the EDM framework, we applied convergent cross-mapping (CCM), multivariate forecast skill improvement, and scenario exploration to assess the impact of influenza vaccination on the activity of other respiratory viruses. Analyses were conducted separately for each noninfluenza respiratory virus, incorporating AIVC, influenza activity (AAP for IAV, IBV, or IV), and national population-weighted environmental variables (absolute humidity and temperature). IAV activity was included in the main analysis, while IBV and IV were used in sensitivity analyses. All analyses covered both the pre-COVID-19 pandemic (January 2016 to December 2019) and post-COVID-19 pandemic (July 2022 to December 2024) periods. Each time series was normalized to have zero mean and unit variance, following common practice in EDM. All analyses were conducted using the R package rEDM (version 1.14.3). We first used CCM to assess the potential causal effects of influenza vaccination on the activity of common respiratory viruses, as well as the causal effects of influenza activity on other respiratory viruses. [YL93]CCM detects causality [YL94]in nonlinear dynamic systems by testing whether signatures of a driving variable (A) are embedded in the time series of another variable (B), indicating that A causally drives B34. To distinguish causal relationships from spurious correlations due to shared seasonality, we compared CCM performance for the observed driving variable with null expectations derived from surrogate time series. These surrogates were generated by the “seasonal”37 and “Ebisuzaki”48 null models, which preserve seasonal trends while randomizing anomalies.[YL95] Cross-map skill was deemed significant when it exceeded that of the null surrogates. Fisher’s method was applied to test the global meta-significance of the causal relationships for each other respiratory virus and time period, using adjusted P values derived from comparisons with the null model distributions37. Further details on the CCM analysis are provided in the Supplementary Information.We further used forecast improvement in multivariate EDM37,38 to assess how forecasting skill for other respiratory viruses improved by considering the suspected causal drivers, i.e., AIVC, influenza activity, temperature and absolute humidity, either individually or in combination. A variable is deemed causal if its inclusion as a state space coordinate improves nearest-neighbor forecasts, suggesting a potential causal influence on the activity of the target virus.  [YL96]Based on scenario exploration in multivariate EDM, we assess the effect of small changes in driver variables (e.g., AIVC or influenza activity) on other respiratory virus activity. The effects of these small changes allowed us to infer the relationship between each driver variable and other respiratory activity, and their dependence on the system state37,39. At each time point t, S-maps were employed to predict other respiratory activity based on small increases (+?X) and decreases (-?X) in the observed values of the driver variable X(t) (influenza activity or influenza vaccine). The difference in predicted other respiratory activity resulting from these small changes for driver variables was as follows: ?Y=Y(t+1)[X(t)+(?X(t))/2]-Y(t+1)[X(t)-(?X(t))/2]where Y(t+1) is a function of the driver variables X and all other variables, we used the ratio of ?Y/?X to approximate the effect of the driver variables X at time t. We set ?X =10% for both influenza activity or AIVC. [YL97]Statistical modelsSeparate spatiotemporal Bayesian hierarchical models were fitted to RSV, PIV, RV, ADV, and HMPV using monthly case counts as the response variable, for the pre-COVID-19 pandemic (January 2016 to December 2019) and post-COVID-19 pandemic (July 2022 to December 2024) periods. An offset based on log-transformed cumulative cases per epidemic season (scaled to 100 with 0.1 added) was included to express case counts as relative viral activity (see Supplementary Information for details). A negative binomial distribution was employed to account for overdispersion. Spatiotemporal random effects were incorporated to model unobserved and unmeasured heterogeneity, as well as spatial and temporal dependencies. A distributed lag non-linear model (DLNM) was included to investigate the potential nonlinear associations between relative risks (RRs) of other respiratory virus activity and variables including IAV activity, temperature, and absolute humidity. [YL98]Each cross-basis function consisted of a lag-response function and an exposure-response function49. The lag-response function was modeled using natural cubic splines (NS) with two equally spaced internal knots and a maximum lag of 6 months. The exposure-response function was modeled using NS with one equally spaced internal knot. Model fitting was performed in a Bayesian framework using integrated nested Laplace approximations (INLA)50,51. The regression model is specified as follows:log??(?_(v,c,t) )=? ?+?_1 CB(?IAV?_(c,t) )+?_2[YL99]CB(?Temp?_(c,t) )+?_3 CB(?AH?_(c,t) )+?IAV proportion?_(c,t)+?immunity?_(v,c,a(t)-1)+??_(c,m(t) )+??_(c,a(t) )+?_(c,a(t) )where ? is the intercept, and ?v,c,t is the relative viral activity [YL100]for virus v in country c at month t. CB(IAVc,t), CB(Tempc,t), and CB(AHc,t) [YL101]represent the cross-basis functions of IAV activity, population-weighted temperature, and absolute humidity, respectively, for country c at month t. The variable IAV proportionc,t represents the proportion of IAV cases among all influenza cases in country c for month t. The variable immunityv,c,a(t)-1 accounts for inter-annual immunity changes, defined as the difference between the number of cases of virus v in country c in year a(t)-1 and the average annual number of cases for that virus and country during 2016–19. ?c,m(t) represents the country-specific monthly random effects, modeled using a cyclic first-order random walk prior to capture both seasonality and seasonal autocorrelation, where m(t) indexes calendar month, ranging from 1 (January) to 12 (December). ?c,a(t) and ?c,a(t) represent the year-specific spatially unstructured and structured random effects at the country level, respectively, and are modeled using a modified Besag-York-Mollie model52.[YL102] For all random effects, we adopted the Penalized Complexity (PC) prior, with precision defined as t = 1/?2 , ensuring Pr (1/√t > 0.5) = 0.0153. [YL103]We additionally tested all combinations of socioeconomic covariates (i.e., GDP and total population) as candidate predictors in the model. The final model was selected using the deviance information criterion and the mean cross-validated log score[YL104], with smaller values indicating a better fit. Cross-validation [YL105]was performed by refitting the selected model for the pre- or post-COVID-19 pandemic period, each time omitting one month per year, and comparing the observations with out-of-sample posterior predictions by country. Modelling details can be found in the Supplementary Information.To assess the association between IAV and other respiratory viruses at levels of influenza vaccination coverage, we extended the model by including a linear interaction between IAV activity (modeled using a DLNM) and a continuous AIVC variable54,55. [YL106]AIVC was centered at the 10th and 90th percentiles to [YL107]evaluate effects at low and high coverage levels, respectively, and was also independently included in the DLNM (see Supplementary Information for model details). In models incorporating interaction terms, the bi-dimensional exposure-lag-response association varies with the interactive variable. To estimate effects at a specific value of interest (e.g., the 10th percentile), the interaction term is centered by subtracting that value, making the interaction term (i.e., the cross-basis multiplied by the interactive variable) equal to 0 at that point. This allows the main term (i.e., the standard cross-basis function) to be interpreted as the association at the predefined value. Although the model structure remains the same, changing the centering point at different values results in a different parameterization for interpretation54,55.We repeated the analysis using IBV and IV activity instead of IAV for the pre- and post-COVID-19 pandemic periods, respectively. All analyses were conducted in R (version 4.4.0) using the packages INLA50, dlnm49, and splines.Data availabilityXXXXXXXCode availabilityXXXXXXXAcknowledgementXXXXXXXCompeting interests The authors declare no competing interests.FundingThis study was supported by the Key research projects of the Beijing Natural Science Foundation-Haidian District Joint Fund (L232014); Beijing Research Center for Respiratory Infectious Diseases Project (BJRID2025-001); National Natural Science Foundation of China (82204160); Science and Technology Projects of XizangAutonomous Region, China (XZ202501JD0012); Research on Key Technologies of Plague Prevention and Control in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (2021ZD0006). The funders had no role in the study design, data collection and analysis, the decision to publish, or in preparation of the manuscript.Author contributionsXXXXXXXReference1	GBD 2021 Lower Respiratory Infections and Antimicrobial Resistance Collaborators. Global, regional, and national incidence and mortality burden of non-COVID-19 lower respiratory infections and aetiologies, 1990-2021: a systematic analysis from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2021. Lancet Infect Dis 24, 974-1002 (2024).2	Yamayoshi, S. & Kawaoka, Y. Current and future influenza vaccines. Nat Med 25, 212-220 (2019).3	Hughes, M. M. et al. Projected Population Benefit of Increased Effectiveness and Coverage of Influenza Vaccination on Influenza Burden in the United States. Clin Infect Dis 70, 2496-2502 (2020).4	Sah, P., Medlock, J., Fitzpatrick, M. C., Singer, B. H. & Galvani, A. P. Optimizing the impact of low-efficacy influenza vaccines. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 115, 5151-5156 (2018).5	Tang, J. W. et al. Global epidemiology of non-influenza RNA respiratory viruses: data gaps and a growing need for surveillance. Lancet Infect Dis 17, e320-e326 (2017).6	Morens, D. M., Taubenberger, J. K. & Fauci, A. S. Rethinking next-generation vaccines for coronaviruses, influenzaviruses, and other respiratory viruses. Cell Host Microbe 31, 146-157 (2023).7	Ruckwardt, T. J. The road to approved vaccines for respiratory syncytial virus. NPJ Vaccines 8, 138 (2023).8	Du, Z. et al. Impact of RSVpreF vaccination on reducing the burden of respiratory syncytial virus in infants and older adults. Nat Med 31, 647-652 (2025).9	Ziogas, A., Bruno, M., van der Meel, R., Mulder, W. J. M. & Netea, M. G. Trained immunity: Target for prophylaxis and therapy. Cell Host Microbe 31, 1776-1791 (2023).10	Lee, Y. J. et al. Non-specific Effect of Vaccines: Immediate Protection against Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection by a Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccine. Front Microbiol 9, 83 (2018).11	Lee, A. et al. BCG vaccination stimulates integrated organ immunity by feedback of the adaptive immune response to imprint prolonged innate antiviral resistance. Nat Immunol 25, 41-53 (2024).12	Debisarun, P. A. et al. Induction of trained immunity by influenza vaccination - impact on COVID-19. PLoS Pathog 17, e1009928 (2021).13	Li, N., Ruan, S. & Tian, H. Interactions between zoonotic pathogens and infectious disease spread: Why understanding mechanisms and modelling matters more than ever. Biosaf Health (2025).14	Nickbakhsh, S. et al. Virus-virus interactions impact the population dynamics of influenza and the common cold. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 116, 27142-27150 (2019).15	Waterlow, N. R. et al. Evidence for influenza and RSV interaction from 10 years of enhanced surveillance in Nha Trang, Vietnam, a modelling study. PLoS Comput Biol 18, e1010234 (2022).16	Kramer, S. C., Pirikahu, S., Casalegno, J.-S. & Domenech de Cellès, M. Characterizing the interactions between influenza and respiratory syncytial viruses and their implications for epidemic control. Nat Commun 15, 10066 (2024).17	Ibiebele, J. C. et al. The role of viral interaction in household transmission of symptomatic influenza and respiratory syncytial virus. Nat Commun 16, 1249 (2025).18	Liang, S. et al. Disturbed respiratory viral ecology by COVID-19 pandemic reveals the pivotal role of Influenza in virus-virus interaction network. medRxiv, 2025.2001.2011.24319626 (2025).19	Domenech de Celles, M., Goult, E., Casalegno, J. S. & Kramer, S. C. The pitfalls of inferring virus-virus interactions from co-detection prevalence data: application to influenza and SARS-CoV-2. Proc Biol Sci 289, 20212358 (2022).20	Opatowski, L., Baguelin, M. & Eggo, R. M. Influenza interaction with cocirculating pathogens and its impact on surveillance, pathogenesis, and epidemic profile: A key role for mathematical modelling. PLoS Pathog 14, e1006770 (2018).21	Wong, A. et al. The interactions of SARS-CoV-2 with cocirculating pathogens: Epidemiological implications and current knowledge gaps. PLoS Pathog 19, e1011167 (2023).22	Tayar, E. et al. Effectiveness of influenza vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 infection among healthcare workers in Qatar. J Infect Public Health 16, 250-256 (2023).23	Skowronski, D. M. et al. Influenza Vaccine Does Not Increase the Risk of Coronavirus or Other Noninfluenza Respiratory Viruses: Retrospective Analysis From Canada, 2010–2011 to 2016–2017. Clin Infect Dis 71, 2285-2288 (2020).24	Sundaram, M. E. et al. Influenza vaccination is not associated with detection of noninfluenza respiratory viruses in seasonal studies of influenza vaccine effectiveness. Clin Infect Dis 57, 789-793 (2013).25	Cowling, B. J. et al. Increased risk of noninfluenza respiratory virus infections associated with receipt of inactivated influenza vaccine. Clin Infect Dis 54, 1778-1783 (2012).26	Rikin, S. et al. Assessment of temporally-related acute respiratory illness following influenza vaccination. Vaccine 36, 1958-1964 (2018).27	Wolff, G. G. Influenza vaccination and respiratory virus interference among Department of Defense personnel during the 2017-2018 influenza season. Vaccine 38, 350-354 (2020).28	Le, H. et al. Non-specific benefit of seasonal influenza vaccine on respiratory syncytial virus-hospitalisations in children: An instrumental variable approach using population-based data. Vaccine 41, 5029-5036 (2023).29	Chow, E. J., Uyeki, T. M. & Chu, H. Y. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on community respiratory virus activity. Nat Rev Microbiol 21, 195-210 (2023).30	Zhao, C. et al. Characterising the asynchronous resurgence of common respiratory viruses following the COVID-19 pandemic. Nat Commun 16, 1610 (2025).31	Li, Y. et al. Global patterns in monthly activity of influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenza virus, and metapneumovirus: a systematic analysis. Lancet Glob Health 7, e1031-e1045 (2019).32	Dalziel, B. D. et al. Urbanization and humidity shape the intensity of influenza epidemics in U.S. cities. Science 362, 75-79 (2018).33	Chen, C. et al. Global influenza vaccination rates and factors associated with influenza vaccination. Int J Infect Dis 125, 153-163 (2022).34	Sugihara, G. et al. Detecting Causality in Complex Ecosystems. Science 338, 496-500 (2012).35	Ferdinands, J. M. et al. Intraseason Waning of Influenza Vaccine Protection: Evidence From the US Influenza Vaccine Effectiveness Network, 2011–2012 Through 2014–2015. Clin Infect Dis 64, 544-550 (2017).36	Doyon-Plourde, P., Przepiorkowski, J., Young, K., Zhao, L. & Sinilaite, A. Intraseasonal waning immunity of seasonal influenza vaccine - A systematic review and meta-analysis. Vaccine 41, 4462-4471 (2023).37	Deyle, E. R., Maher, M. C., Hernandez, R. D., Basu, S. & Sugihara, G. Global environmental drivers of influenza. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113, 13081-13086 (2016).38	Ye, H. & Sugihara, G. Information leverage in interconnected ecosystems: Overcoming the curse of dimensionality. Science 353, 922-925 (2016).39	Deyle, E. R. et al. Predicting climate effects on Pacific sardine. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110, 6430-6435 (2013).40	Escobar, L. E., Molina-Cruz, A. & Barillas-Mury, C. BCG vaccine protection from severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 117, 17720-17726 (2020).41	Howerton, E. et al. Using COVID-19 pandemic perturbation to model RSV-hMPV interactions and potential implications under RSV interventions. Nat Commun 16, 7261 (2025).42	Fry, A. M. et al. Seasonal trends of human parainfluenza viral infections: United States, 1990-2004. Clin Infect Dis 43, 1016-1022 (2006).43	Palache, A., Oriol-Mathieu, V., Abelin, A., Music, T. & Influenza Vaccine Supply task, f. Seasonal influenza vaccine dose distribution in 157 countries (2004-2011). Vaccine 32, 6369-6376 (2014).44	Hersbach, H., Bell, B., Berrisford, P., Biavati, G., Horányi, A., Muñoz Sabater, J., Nicolas, J., Peubey, C., Radu, R., Rozum, I., Schepers, D., Simmons, A., Soci, C., Dee, D., Thépaut, J-N. ERA5 hourly data on single levels from 1940 to present. Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) Climate Data Store (CDS) (2023).45	May, R. M. et al. MetPy: A Meteorological Python Library for Data Analysis and Visualization. Bull Am Meteorol Soc 103, E2273-E2284 (2022).46	Center For International Earth Science Information Network-CIESIN-Columbia University. Gridded Population of the World, Version 4 (GPWv4): Population Density, Revision 11. NASA Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC) (2018).47	The World Bank Group. Indicators, https://data.worldbank.org/indicator (2024).48	Ebisuzaki, W. A method to estimate the statistical significance of a correlation when the data are serially correlated. J Clim 10, 2147-2153 (1997).49	Gasparrini, A. Modeling exposure-lag-response associations with distributed lag non-linear models. Stat Med 33, 881-899 (2014).50	Lindgren, F. & Rue, H. Bayesian Spatial Modelling with R-INLA. J Stat Softw 63, 1 - 25 (2015).51	Rue, H., Martino, S. & Chopin, N. Approximate Bayesian inference for latent Gaussian models by using integrated nested Laplace approximations. J R Stat Soc Series B Stat Methodol 71, 319-392 (2009).52	Riebler, A., Sorbye, S. H., Simpson, D. & Rue, H. An intuitive Bayesian spatial model for disease mapping that accounts for scaling. Stat Methods Med Res 25, 1145-1165 (2016).53	Simpson, D., Rue, H., Riebler, A., Martins, T. G. & Sorbye, S. H. Penalising Model Component Complexity: A Principled, Practical Approach to Constructing Priors. Stat Sci 32, 1-28 (2017).54	Gasparrini, A. et al. Temporal Variation in Heat-Mortality Associations: A Multicountry Study. Environ Health Perspect 123, 1200-1207 (2015).55	Lowe, R. et al. Combined effects of hydrometeorological hazards and urbanisation on dengue risk in Brazil: a spatiotemporal modelling study. Lancet Planet Health 5, E209-E219 (2021).[YL1]I think you will need to justify why exactly there will be "off-target effects." What is the biological mechanism?[YL2]How?[YL3]This is a big vague.[YL4]Need to elaborate on what this means exactly.[YL5]Probably need to mention that inactivated vaccines are much more used than live-attenuated in the case of influenza? And the fact that this evidence base is really not as strong as that for live-attenuated.[YL6]I do feel like this is a much stronger case than cross-protection.[YL7]What exactly did they look at in these two studies specifically?[YL8]This sentence has pretty strong causal tendency - is that what the study said? Also, TND reports odds and not risks usually. [YL9R8]Also, TND is not looking at infections only - has to be symptomatic infections leading to healthcare attendance. This could be potentially misleading.[YL10]Not sure this is widely supported: https://www.ajicjournal.org/article/S0196-6553(24)00498-X/fulltext[YL11]Is your study robust to model structure and assumptions?[YL12]Is this meant to be just "coverage"? because campaigns is completely something else that hasn't been mentioned so far.[YL13]Why the post-pandemic context makes it particularly unclear?[YL14]these acronyms have not been introduced.[YL15]can you be more specific about the magnitude of these correlations? significant correlations may also be small.[YL16]Do you mean they are not statistically significant?[YL17]I don't think you have defined what's low and high coverage countries?[YL18]How big is the gap? Is this a one-tailed test?[YL19R18]Or just descriptive?[YL20]Can you clarify what's represented by each point in the boxplot? Is that country-year? [YL21]These association may or may not be significant after adjusting for socioeconomic status - given most of your high coverage countries are high latitude high income countries.[YL22]Again, this may have to do with income, which is a proxy for overall health status.[YL23]Or baseline health conditions? I think without any further context this is a bit abrupt.[YL24]A minor point is that the red and blue pair has been used both for pre-pandemic and since-pandemic periods and low and high coverage. maybe consider using gradient color as the levels themselves are gradient?[YL25R24]Is there a reason why medium coverage is not compared in panel D and E?[YL26]There has not been an established causal frame - this is related to my comments about potential overestimation detailed in the methods section. I think using the word causal effect here is a bit asking for trouble.[YL27]Yes! But this is not the same as "causal effect"[YL28]could probably keep using off-target.[YL29]This word is too causal. I think will not be received very well in an epidemiological journal given this is not an inference study/ is an ecological study.[YL30]Or this could be behaviour? vaccine campaign --> higher coverage --> less respiratory diseases.[YL31]I think the word "drives" is a bit too strong and will raise some eyebrows amount epidemiologists[YL32]I am not sure this panel is adding that much. As a DAG - it doesn't have all the other confounders that you are looking at (e.g. socioeconomics). From this figure, influenza is treated as a mediator then?[YL33R32]Given the goal is the estimation of the total effect, why is it necessary to include influenza?[YL34]Add 0.5 sentence on why these?[YL35]be specific that this is just CCM?[YL36]I can kind of see what you mean but I am wondering if these differences are even that important because it's argely comparable to the next "other combinations" models.[YL37R36]Could you provide some metrics highlighting the fact that the differences is meaningful? The full model technically is the "biggest" model so without penalising for degree of freedom it's not really shocking that they end up with the best model performance.[YL38]Not "causal"[YL39]Can you help the readers further decipher this figure? Below 30th, it also didn't seem particularly higher just greater variance?[YL40]Can you clarify if this has been adjusting for socioeconomic status?[YL41]variability of?[YL42]I am not sure I understand this sentence.[YL43]I do wonder if it's all high income countries.[YL44]Is this message slightly redundant to your previous figures?[YL45]Your evidence doesn't show this?[YL46]Panel A-RSV and B-ADV, why are they so wide on the right end?[YL47]Is this immunity or coverage?[YL48]prevalence of what?[YL49]its interaction with what?[YL50]I think this needs to be able to make sense without having to go to the methods.[YL51R50]Are these values meaningful epidemiologically? what is 30% IAV activity broadly? [YL52]do you mean pathogen-specific?[YL53]This is quiet an interesting yet potentially surprising results. influenza vaccine effectiveness can be quite low between 2016 and 2020.[YL54]the elephant in the room is that these were not properly defined when you read it in the current order.[YL55]can you be more specific about what is varied?[YL56]high coverage is good but influenza vaccine doesn't match with the circulating strain often so even when the coverage is high infections may not come down too much. what would make them so categorically different?[YL57]rhinovirus and influenza are either not related or inversely related based on the current evidence but in this figure low influenza is associated with lower risks for RV - why would that be the case?[YL58R57]The relationship between ADV and INFV changed direction  before and after the pandemic, why would that be the case?[YL59R57]Is this also saying when influenza activity is high, it doesn't affect other respiratory diseases? Is that consistent with the existing evidence on multi-pathogen circulation?[YL60R57]given that there's compound seasonal peaks of RSV and infv, how should i interpret A-RSV and B-RSV?[YL61]How?[YL62]I deleted emerging cuz for most technically emerging respiratory pathogens we don't have a vaccine - just the re-emerging ones that we have.[YL63]Do they have evidence or is this just "potential"?[YL64R63]This word has been used 27 times throughout.[YL65]It's not clear if this part of the analytics have been adjusted for socioeconomic factors - most tropical regions would be LMIC probably with the exception of singapore.[YL66]yes but overall the vaccine efficacy is expected to be low most of the years... [YL67]30% is not considered "high coverage levels" for influenza.[YL68R67]low coverage with low effectiveness...[YL69]I don't think I'm reading that as a negative association. Isn't it when AAP is low (influenza activity is low), the RR for RV is significantly below 1? and then as AAP goes up, the RR becomes non-significant? It only looks to have a negative slow because your reference point was AAP = 0 never happens for most countries?[YL70]or baseline population differences? What part of your model have accounted for this? there's no country specific random effect is there?[YL71]This feels abrupt. Both sentences leading up to this are other studies' conclusions.[YL72]The sentences under point 3 is not very tightly related to the point itself.[YL73]This is a very big one and should be rather easy to do from a statistics model set up standpoint. Why did you decide to leave it?[YL74]This again is not related to the point itself.[YL75]I do feel like in terms of "public health value" the current draft may be quite superficial - how exactly do you think this should be factored into public health decision making and planning?[YL76]Can you be more specific about what indicators have you extracted?[YL77]same as above - what data were obtained?[YL78]if you are using different data sources for the same pathogen across countries, what have you done to make them truly comparable?[YL79]Seems like you have split the influenza season based on the "quiet" period for the Northern Hemisphere but did something else for the Southern hemisphere? What's the logic?[YL80]I don't think it's reasonable to count 2022 as post-pandemic.[YL81R80]https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.adq3003 based on this and many similar studies probably more sensible to lump 2022 with 2020-2021.[YL82]What does it mean to "overestimate" a "pattern"?[YL83]Another sentence briefly describing what is shannon index and why is needed.[YL84]This is presumably based on calendar year?[YL85]How do you make sure they are comparable? Palache can do this because they standardised data collection from key pharmaceutical companies. Their assessment of this isn't the same as "all doses distributed statistics are reasonable proxy".[YL86]Again, how did you consolidate these different databases?[YL87]campaign timing doesn't equal rollout timing.[YL88]how?[YL89]It's not clear to me what's normal?[YL90]Efficacy?[YL91]How is this implemented? Step change or exponential?[YL92]unit and year?[YL93]This is coming on a bit strong. May get grief from epidemiologists using language like "causal effects"[YL94]More like evidence for potential causality? [YL95]I think these would require some contexts.[YL96]This is not the conventional definition of "causality" in respiratory epidemiology so I anticipate will receive some push backs from reviewers.[YL97]Is there a rationale behind this? Is this standard of practice?[YL98]I am not sure I understand this. Can you be more explicit about the exposure and response? The coefficients from a DLNM is often an RR with a NB set up - but why does it sound like the RR is part of the exposure-response structure also?[YL99](5) so in the introduction section you have talked a lot of about pathogen interaction. here's a huge simplification. All pathogens are modelled independently (they may affect each other) on the left hand side. And the relationship is unidirectional. [YL100]just checking - this is the case counts adjusted by cumulative case counts? So you have already written the off set term into this?[YL101](2) This introduces a large degree of freedom and I cannot see explicit measures to account for overfitting. if the DIC is used also for including and excluding some of these key CB strctures, can you be explicit about that? what and how many combinations did you check exactly? right now it does sound like it only is used to remove socioeconomic covariates.[YL102](3) Are these BYMs linked temporally?[YL103]This is a clear model setup but there are a few things that I am worried about.(1) seasonality is controlled by RW1 for month AND temperature AND AH AND IAV cross basis AND immunity AND IAV proportion. Aren't you prone to have collinearity/ over-controlled seasnoality leading to unstable effect estimates?[YL104](4) This is a great combination that you have chosen. Could be convincing if you have attempted to exclude all candidate variable, e.g. including AH. But DIC may be unreliable with complex hierarchical models with many random effects. Would WAIC make more sense?[YL105]I think I have mentioned before that you are ignoring a lot of measurement inconsistencies between countries. Would it make sense for cross-validation to leave some countries out as an exercise to test for robustness?[YL106]This is again adding a very large degree of freedom. The overfitting issue would become even worse at this point.[YL107]This seems arbitrary but also potentially difficult to interpret.2